So some screen reader stuff,
you can dive way deep in this obviously,
we just scratched the surface.
What I really want you to know,
kind of going forward, are some tips for
debugging.
So screen reading might be
one aspect of debugging.
So debugging, you could also
call web accessibility testing.
It's something all devs should do.
It's regular automated testing or
learning concepts about security or
performance.
I think accessibility is even more
foundational than some of those things
because of the direct impact on how our
user interfaces affect people's lives.
I guess yeah,
all of these concerns are important.
But I think accessibility testing should
be part of your regular workflow.
And once you get in the habit of
opening up the tools, testing it,
hopefully, it will just lodge in
your mind like it has for me so
that it just becomes a matter of habit of,
okay, I'm going to test with the keyboard.
Okay, I'm going to test
with the axe extension.
So that's the first step I take is, I use
my tab key to navigate through a page.
It's as simple as it sounds.
You hit tab and tab through things
you see, can I reach and navigate?
Or reach and operate every
interactive control on a page.
So if a mouse user can click on it,
as a keyboard user,
I should be able to do the same task.
It might not be the exact same element,
I might have a click event on a wrapper
element or something that only mouse
users use, but then within that,
I have a focusable link, or a button,
or some other way to do the same thing.
So I wanna be able to accomplish
every task as a keyboard user.
And if you ditch your mouse completely,
like just don't use it for a day,
maybe you could put some
paper over your trackpad or
it seems a bit extreme, but
you know what I'm saying?
If you can have a process where you
cannot bail out and use your mouse,
you're probably gonna find some
issues that need to get fixed.
Yeah, because it's pervasive, but
it's something we can address and
a lot of cases.
So can you reach and
operate every control?
Can you see where you are on the screen?
Is there a focus outline?
We have the default blue.
I will say the slide materials that we
have right now, the whole sidebar is
a series of components that I
really want to contribute back to.
It's not exactly how I want
the keyboard accessibility to be.
So sometimes you have to
go open up an issue or
a pull request on an open
source library and say, hey,
can we make this configurable or
can I just contribute a fix for this?
That's probably what I'll do.
Because when these menus over
here on the left are closed,
we should be able to skip by them, it's
It's actually forcing me through every
single link in the sidebar,
which can get tedious.
As a sided user, I can skip by those
sections cuz they're collapsed.
But as a keyboard user, it's opening
them to try and be helpful, but
it ends up being kinda annoying.
[LAUGH] So that's why we have to test it.
So I'm just trying to get through here,
some skip links could be helpful too.
If I could skip past this sidebar,
I think that's a feature that
I'd like to add to this.
So I've got a little theme picker
on the bottom left of the screen so
I can get between dark mode and
light mode.
If I hit enter on that, it opens up a
little dark Light mode, dark mode picker.
And it said focus to that, so
it opened that interactive widget.
And then I can use my arrow keys to go
through these items, that's pretty slick.
Can I hit the Esc key?
Yes, I can, so Esc took me back to
the button that prompted that to open.
And then I can skip on by, I can get to
all of the interactive things on the page.
Something you don't want to have
happen is you don't wanna get stuck
behind any layers.
If there's a modal dialog,
we wanna send focus into it and
replace it when it's done, and
I shouldn't get stuck back there.
Cuz mouse users aren't stuck back there,
they can mouse around and do things.
But keyboard and screen reader users
are often literally left behind.
[LAUGH] So we can avoid that
with some focus management.
And can I use other common key
commands like Esc or the arrow keys or
the space key?
So we tested with the Tab key.
The next thing that I would do is open
a browser dev tools extension like Axe for
Chrome or Firefox or Edge, and
we'll do all of these steps in a minute.
I also zoom the page to at
least 200% on my Mac keyboard,
that is Command Plus,
and I can zoom weigh in.
It conveniently mimics my
responsive breakpoints and stuff.
So anything you do for
responsive design will work for zoom and
magnification, something we call
reflow which is very awesome.
That that just works together.
So I can zoom back out with Command minus,
I think it's control plus,
control minus on the Windows keyboard.
So by zooming in regularly,
you can see, do the layouts, reflow.
Are there any components that are straight
up broken, like interactive things
are happening off screen, or you have
horizontal scrolling where you shouldn't?
And that is so that people who
are low vision, who zoom way in,
can still navigate.
And there's some exceptions,
as we'll talk about a little bit later,
like some interfaces are just going
to have horizontal scrolling and
there are exceptions.
But for the most part, it should be
responsive and reflow these days.
We wanna test other visual modes.
So like on this site,
I have light mode and dark mode.
I had to fix a few things, I think in
light mode, it didn't look great, but
in dark mode, it was great.
So I just had to add some CSS for that.
I have running a screen reader,
is pretty far down the list.
So it's It's not the first thing,
conceptually, we wanna know about it,
but it isn't in my even top
three things of how I test.
But when you do, because you should,
pull up those cheat sheets for
whichever screen reader you're testing.
Double check before filing an issue
on Jira, maybe get another opinion or
you can work with people who use
screen readers regularly as well,
and that's very important.
We shouldn't just guess, we have all these
biases, we're new to screen readers,
we can see the screen.
If you can work with people who use
screen readers and pay them for
their time,
that's gonna yield way better results.
So whenever you can do that, you should.
And then kinda just to make sure we don't
miss this, for media content like audio or
video, make sure that there
are transcripts and/or captions.
And make sure your media players
can accommodate that content.
So these steps could apply to
any website or web application.
I got a great question,
just like random email question,
about someone who was curious about
the accessibility of Microsoft 365.
Just like randomly asked me that question,
and I thought,
that's a good question because
people are evaluating.
Tools to use and they wanna know
how accessible it is, and so
these techniques would apply to that.
It's cloud-based web software,
it needs to be accessible.
So these techniques are things
that I would use to evaluate
that if I were looking to procure
a tool for HR or anything.
And fortunately,
there are some sort of crowd-sourced
feedback on accessible
platforms you could search for
Microsoft 365 accessibility.
Microsoft might even have some of
their own documentation on it, but
just to kind of make drive home that
like anything that's It`s web-based,
can be tested with these techniques for
the most part.
So those are the steps, and
we will use these steps in a little bit.
So Linters and DevTools, there's a ton
of different tools that you can use,
different browsers have built-in browser
Devtools that are excellent these days.
Chrome is my choice that I reach for
all the time.
I know sometimes the Chrome and
their practices, Google,
is not people's preferred browser.
So some people use Firefox, and
there are awesome tools in Firefox now.
Their color picker is amazing,
it can help you identify the contrast
ratio of different elements.
That's one of my favorites,
great layout tools as well in Firefox.
Safari also has awesome tools,
they're kind of forgotten about,
but there's some accessibility
inspector things and
audit feature,
the responsive design mode in Safari.
It's pretty excellent as well,
built into Chrome is Lighthouse.
It is an accessibility auditing
tool built into the browser.
It runs the Axe-Core JavaScript library
and then we get into browser extensions.
So within the browser, my number one,
my daily driver is
the Axe Chrome extension.
It's by Deque, I used to work on that,
so I am a little biased, but
it's just solid, It's an awesome tool.
You can check how a page looks at runtime.
And then if you have things like modals or
other components,
you could run it again and
make sure it didn't miss anything.
And we'll test it out to see things like,
what labels are on the issues,
are they best practices, or
are they actually tied to violations in
the Web content accessibility guidelines.
That's kinda good things
to pay attention to.
You can go straight from the results
in that extension over to highlight
elements and look at them in the Devtools,
we'll check that out.
And then there's kind of upsell
tools within the extension if
you wanna expand into tools that
your organization pays for,
they put a lot of effort into those.
Another tool we're checking out
is Accessibility Insights for
Web from Microsoft.
It also uses the Axe-core library, or
sort of see that come up again and again.
It's an awesome tool,
should definitely checked that one out.
The Web developer toolbar for
Firebox and Chrome,
I'm gonna pull that one up as well,
it's pretty awesome.
It's really the best tool I found for
looking at heading structure.
So we could install that one, and
then when it comes to linting for
ESLint and text editors, there is one for
React applications called
ESlint-Plugin-JSX-A11y, sort
of a standard ESlint plugin.
There's another one from
Deque called Axe Linter.
I used it a while back,
haven't used it super recently, but
it could be an option for
projects that aren't JSX or React-based.
One thing I will say about linters is,
you might need to tweak the settings.
Sometimes they have rules that
just come up again and again.
And if you ignore them because they
don't apply to your situation or
it's just kinda guessing wrong,
you can turn that rule off.
You don't wanna have the team kinda
get used to ignoring results.
It's better to fine-tune the tools
[LAUGH] so that they're relevant, and
then if something comes up,
you actually pay attention.
Kind of a similar theme with
automated testing as well.